osho : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qPMz2m4QXnY

The one who remains on the leaves of the tree will not be able to understand the tree.
Our mind also has three parts like this.
The first part on which a little light falls is the conscious mind.
The second part is buried under the conscious mind and is the subconscious mind.
The third part which is hidden below is the unconscious mind.

There is a little consciousness in the first part and even less in the third part.
Most of us live and end up in the conscious mind of man.
That is why we cannot understand life.
The root of life is hidden in the unconscious mind.
It is invisible under the earth.


From there our connection with God, truth and life is there.
From there the root is connected to the earth.


The connection of roots with life is in our unconscious mind.
Our search for truth or self is rooted in our unconscious mind.
Or that search of God,
the search of one's own roots, the search of the roots that are within us,
they are hidden in the darkness and we live in that small room above the ground where light falls and end up there.
This conscious mind is created by society, through education, through sanskars from childhood.
And till today, this conscious mind of man has been created without thinking that there are two more minds below it.
Therefore, often the things that are taught to this mind go against the mind below it, become different.
And then a conflict, a pull, a tension starts between this upper and lower floors. Man gets divided within himself.


The things that are taught in the conscious mind
get divided. If they are not parallel to the unconscious mind and the semi-conscious mind,
if they are not in harmony with them, then the personality of all of us gets fragmented.

A fragmented personality is disintegrated. And it is so because the things that have been taught to our conscious mind
have not been taken into account of our entire personality. The conscious mind is told not to get angry.
As soon as a child is born, we start teaching him not to get angry.

Anger is present in his unconscious mind.
We teach him not to get angry.
His outer mind learns not to get angry.
But anger is present inside.
The outer mind says don't get angry. The inner mind pushes for anger every moment.
Whenever the opportunity comes, anger wants to show up.

The inner mind wants to show anger.
The outer mind wants to stop anger.
And one of the oppressors wants to suppress. Suppression begins.
And then we are divided into two parts.
The part that we suppress gets separated from the part that suppresses.
And a constant conflict starts between these two.
In this conflict, man breaks down and gets destroyed.

Yoga is the name of unity between these three minds.
Harmony and music are created between these three parts of the mind.
But the situation is such that there is no relationship between these three.
Rather, they are standing in opposition to each other.
Whatever we think and contemplate during the day, we see the exact opposite of that in our dreams.
In our dreams, the mind hidden behind us starts manifesting.
During the day, the conscious mind gets tired and goes to sleep.
Then at night, all that un-conscious-mind, that hidden mind behind us, starts manifesting.
We are one thing during the day and another thing in our dreams. We are the opposite.

We do not steal during the day, we steal in our dreams.
We do not kill anyone during the day, we kill in our dreams.
Then we are surprised in the morning. How did I see this in my dream? I have never even thought of killing.
I have never stolen.

Then how did I steal in my dream?
How did I kill in my dream?
The conscious mind did not think of killing,
but the unconscious mind thought and the conscious mind is suppressing it.
When the conscious mind sleeps in the dream, the unconscious starts expressing its thoughts.
This has arisen within us and the formula for creating all these gaps is suppression.
Till date, this is what has been explained.
Suppress the mind. Suppress whatever is bad in your mind.
But where will it go by suppressing it?
Will anything be destroyed by suppression?
It goes inside us, it is not destroyed by suppression,
it enters deep inside us and goes deep inside us and becomes present there.
We suppress it, it becomes a part of our life,
then we purify our conscious mind, we clean it, we hang good and auspicious words there,
we clean it completely and remove all the dirt inside,
then our life keeps getting dirty inside, everything gets cleaned on the outside,
everything gets collected inside, inside where our real being is,


Where our authentic being is...


we throw all the garbage there and on the upper floor in the living room we clean everything,
such is our condition,
such a mind can neither be healthy nor peaceful,
such a mind is constantly engaged in conflict within itself,
in a war, we are fighting 24 hours a day with ourselves.
And the one who is fighting with himself

will ruin his life because fighting with himself has only one meaning.

If I make my both hands fight, what will be the result?

Will anyone win? My own both hands are behind both of them.
My own strength will fight with both hands. No hand can win. But one thing is
certain. No hand will win. It will be my strength to fight. No hand will win.
But I will lose.


I will go in the end and find a deep defeat Every man has lost at the end of his life
He feels himself defeated and tired At the end of his life, victory is not achieved, defeat is achieved
and defeat is certain because if someone fights with his own hands, how can victory be achieved

Whose victory can it be?

We are fighting our own mind by dividing it into two parts...
And those with whom we are fighting are our own parts of the mind,

we are not even aware of that we are ourselves and secondly, the mind with which we are fighting is
locked in darkness, we do not even know them, we do not even identify with them Till now,

all the education,
all the culture,
all the society of man is built on this system of difference,
then due to this internal conflict,
many explosions take place,
like we heat tea in a kettle and close the mouth of the kettle,

close the lid and even if we keep heating it,
what will happen there will be an explosion The steam of the kettle cannot come out If you can't,

then break the kettle's vessel everyday there is an explosion in man or it takes many forms.
A man goes mad This is the explosion of the poison that is suppressed inside
Everyday our daily, day to day quarrels and conflicts
Husband with wife, children with parents, teachers with students, one class with another class,
one village with another village, one province with another province,
one country with another country, people speaking one language with people speaking another
Language, every day,

In 5000 years man has done 15 Hundred Wars !!!

Are we only fighting wars

in the world?

Till today our entire civilization and culture of 5000 years is a war of civilization and culture.

We have spent our lives fighting some periods in between.
When we fight, we keep preparing to fight.
When we don't fight, we prepare to fight.
Either we fight or we prepare to fight.
There are only two things that mankind has been doing.
What is this?

Why do so many explosions take place from a small spark?
Why does a man go mad?
In the name of Hindu, Muslim, Jain, Christian, Sikh, Parsi...

a small thing starts a fire and a man goes mad.
Man is ready to go mad.
There is so much pressure inside him that if he gets a chance, he will come out.
A small echo will arise and he will go mad.
It is not accidental that so many wars are so complex.
There is so much conflict. These are the natural consequences of the way man is.
So even if the politicians keep shouting that war is not a problem, it is not a natural consequence.
It should not happen, even if saints and hermits keep explaining that war is very bad,
but as long as the mind of man is free, as long as there is oppression in the mind of man,
war cannot be stopped,

till then no power can stop war,
till then conflict cannot be stopped,
till then the daily struggle of life cannot be stopped,
on one hand we will stop the struggle,

on the other hand it will find a way out because inside we are sitting on a boiling volcano
and we have no relation with that volcano,
we are sitting comfortably on a nice sofa on the volcano
And below the volcano is blazing and we are decorating our sofa,
decorating our house and below the volcano is burning,
we keep decorating it from above,
inside there is a fire burning,
if we keep suppressing that fire in this situation,
then we will break down and we will lose ourselves.

We will destroy This is what man has done till today
Is this what man has to do in future also or


Can we give birth to a new man... ?

Whose mind is not based on repression
But we will get scared,
we will say that if we do not supress our mind then we will go mad in repressing it
Okay but if we do not repress then there will be an explosion right now,

if we do not repress ourselves, then inside us so much poison,
so snakes and scorpions, so much anger, so much sex, so much lust, so much greed, so much jealousy...


feels that if we do not repress then everything will come out
and then it will happen We do not have to repress but something else has to be done,
that the upper part of the mind which is conscious, which is conscious, where there is light,
that light has to be taken to those parts of the mind also where there is darkness,
We have to illuminate the entire mind, we have to light a lamp of awareness in the entire mind,

there should be light in a small place

now

The flame of the lamp has to be made bigger so that the light reaches all the three floors of the mind.
The first task is to bring light.
As soon as the light starts reaching, a transformation begins in the mind.
You may not even be aware of it.
The sun rises.
As soon as the sun rises, a change begins on the earth.
The buds that were closed start blooming.
The fragrance that was hidden starts appearing as soon as the sun's light descends on the earth.
The whole life that was asleep starts waking up.
The trees, plants, animals and birds that were asleep wake up and start singing songs.
They become alive as soon as the sunlight comes.
The earth becomes different.
As soon as the sunlight goes away, the darkness spreads.

The earth falls unconscious.

Everyone goes to sleep. Plants, animals, birds, and men all fall unconscious as the sun sets.
The unconsciousness starts breaking The awakening starts coming, the dawn It happens.

Light never reaches the two floors of the mind.
There is a deep unconsciousness there.
Everyone is asleep there.


There is a deep darkness...

In that darkness snakes and scorpions start moving And we keep suppressing from above.
All the garbage gets collected here and there...
The life of a man has become heavier...
and more more Light has to be taken there Light has to be taken there...

Light can be taken The name of the method of taking that light is  "Dharma"




How can we take light ???

to the depths of the mind

How can we take it there ???

So that the reign of darkness ends

And all our beings become illuminated

In the same way, as soon as light reaches !!!

the mind, changes begin to take place As soon as that light reaches,
the bud blooms and becomes a flower
As soon as that light reaches,
the beings that were asleep inside awaken and with awakening,

the difference begins Awakening is transformation

How can we take awakening, consciousness, awareness to the mind ???

How can our whole being ???

become awakened and the day !

we are completely awakened,
a connection is established between the beings
Then man is no longer divided into three parts,
That is why the most valuable thing of life is to take light
into the dark chambers of the mind !!!


How can we take light into the mind A little light is present
If that much light is not present then We cannot do anything but a little light is present A little lamp is lit in our mind
There is light there In that light you are listening to me You are walking in that light You are getting up in that light

You are living by thinking
How to make this light bigger in this little light


There are two ways to make this light bigger

One is that we are using this light Right now we are using only one
way to see the outside world In looking at the outside world
With a lamp outside the house We have seen the outside world



We have seen the outside world a lot...
This little use of light has revealed many things in the outside world.
This use of light outside has given birth to science.
We have discovered the laws of matter.
We have discovered the secrets hidden within matter.
We have succeeded to a great extent in conquering the life outside life.
The whole story of science is the implementation of this small conscious mind in the outside world.
The whole story of science is the use of this small conscious mind in the outside world.
We have used this small conscious mind in matter.
Such a big world of science has come up !!!
We kept on entering the matter and we have discovered the atom and by going deeper inside the atom,
the neutron and electron.

A great power has come in our hands.
A great power has come in our hands.
A great power has come in our hands.

This consciousness can be used not outside but inside also.
The people who experimented outside have reached the atom.
The person who experiments inside reaches the soul.
The light reaches This is the lamp outside the house

When we light it, we can see the path
When we light it inside the house,
we can see the troubles of the house
Meditation is an experiment to take this light inside
It is an experiment
By closing our eyes, we try to wake up inside

What does a scientist do ???

A scientist observes the phenomena outside,
observes The events outside Sitting in his laboratory,
with his eyes wide open, he observes in every way What is happening
He is boiling the water, heating it He is seeing at what degree
Water is heated and becomes water He is observing it,
observing it In the same way,
in the laboratory of the mind,

Close the door and sit inside and observe What is happening there.
At what degree anger becomes a feeling
At what degree does it explode
What is anger, what is the speed of anger, thought

What is thought,
how How does it arise

How does it fall What is memory What is memory How is memory formed
What is love How is hatred born
What is it How does it arise within and spread
How does its poison fill the entire being

Many events are happening within
Observation towards these

Sit within !

Just as a scientist investigates and searches in a laboratory,
similarly, to see, know and search these too

Religion is the science of the soul

Man who is a seeker has to make his mind a laboratory
And take all the power of observation there
To see what is happening in the mind
What is this process of the mind
Anger arises in your mind

Have you ever tried to sit in a secluded corner and
See what is this
Not anger You must have done two things Either
When anger arises,
you must have attacked the person on whom it arises...






Or if you are religious and If you are a good man
then you must have swallowed your anger
Both these two things are useless

Anger cannot be understood by attacking someone in anger
Anger cannot be understood by swallowing it either
Anger cannot be understood in both the situations

There should be no observation Observation means
that anger has arisen A great opportunity has arrived

A precious moment has arrived to know your own power !!!

Generally anger remains asleep
It can be recognized
at this time
At that time close the door
Sit in a corner
Go and close your eyes and observe
Observe what is this
Where does anger arise from
Why does it arise
It catches hold of the mind
It binds it
It drives
mad
This entire process
From the birth of anger
To the youth of anger

See it

Just observe

But there is a difficulty in observing
It has been taught to us since childhood
That anger is bad
Whatever we consider bad We are not ready to see
We have made a mistake, anger is bad
How can we see this thing which is bad
There is no condemnation or censure in our mind for it

Because of anger we do not see the enemy.
If someone sees the enemy properly,
then our eyes turn to the other side.

If we meet the enemy on the way,
then we lower our eyes and go away or take another street.
No one wants to see the enemy.
They only want to see the one who is a friend.
They only want to see the one with whom they have no conflict.

So in the philosophy of the mind,
in the observation of the mind,
our teachings,
our so-called moral teachings,
have created a big ruckus.
Anger is bad,
it is an enemy.
Then we will see it.
I request you that nothing in your mind is your enemy.

Everything is your friend.
And if you find that there is an enemy,
then it is only a proof that you have been unable to use it properly.
You have not been able to use it properly.
That is why it appears to be an enemy.
One day you will know and recognize it completely.
You will be surprised.
You will find that it is My powers are enemies,
none of them.
But when we are unfamiliar with a friend,
he seems like an enemy.
When we are familiar,
he seems like a friend.
We have to become familiar with him,
we have to completely recognize what is inside.
So, for observation,
it is absolutely necessary to give up the feeling that something is bad or something is good.
Right now, we are not familiar with our mind.
We have to become familiar with the whole mind.
Whatever may be good or bad, we have to become familiar with the total mind.
So, when anger arises, observe it.

And if you observe, you will be surprised.
As soon as you observe, you will begin to see many amazing facts.
But we have never observed.
Either we have fought with anger or have been defeated by anger and have become controlled by anger.
Both these situations are not auspicious.
Both these situations do not take us to sadhana.
The third situation is that of observation.
Neither we can enjoy anger nor do we want to experience it.

Suppression, rather a third way.

 Observation of whatever arises in the mind Observation of it
Waking up to become fully aware of it What will happen by awakening like this

Two things will happen by awakening like this

One

So as soon as you awaken to anger
You will find that anger does not arise in the conscious mind
Anger comes from the lower level of the conscious mind
The conscious mind has taken decisions many times
That I will not become angry But all decisions
are kept aside

When someone gives a push
Anger arises
It is not known
Where did those decisions go
The mind that took the oath to not become angry

The anger is not coming from there
The anger is coming from much lower down

That mind has no idea of ​​your vow
That mind has no idea of ​​your vow
Did you go to the temple and take a vow
That now I will not become angry
The one who has taken this vow he mind is different
and the mind in which anger is born is a different part of the mind.

That part has no idea.

In the evening you decide to go to sleep and wake up at 4 am.
At 4 am someone inside you says keep sleeping.
There is no hurry to wake up.
It is very cold today.
Then tomorrow you go to sleep and when you wake up in the morning you regret
why you did not wake up.
I had decided to wake up at 4 am.
I woke up.
Why don't you observe?

You will find out.

The mind which had decided this had slept at 4 am
and the mind which gave the message to keep sleeping was another mind.

It had no idea about your decision.
Otherwise how could this have happened?

The mind which had made this decision,
how could the same mind break the decision?

And then how could the same mind regret it in the morning?
man gets confused because he has no idea that different parts of the mind
are taking decisions.

When you observe, love of anger will change.
You will find that the conscious mind does not
come from the conscious mind,

they come from very deep down in the unconscious mind.

So, if you catch hold of their thread and search where they come from,

where they come from,

if we catch hold of the branches of a tree and search where
this tree comes from,

then sooner or later you will have to dig the ground and reach the roots.

If your search continues,

you will have to commit a disaster,

remove the ground and
then you will find that the roots of the tree were not visible,
then when you go in search of anger, love, jealousy, and follow them,
then slowly you will find that you have started moving away from the conscious mind
and reaching the unconscious mind,

and in this reaching,
light will start to appear because the mind which observes you,

that is the light.

So, when you follow a man,
if he chases a thief in his house with a lamp,
then Wherever the thief is hiding in the dark corner,

he will reach there himself and the lamp will also reach with him.
If we catch hold of each instinct that arises in our conscious mind

and follow it,

then we will have to reach the place from where that instinct is born.
There has been no other way to reach the unconscious mind,

nor can there be.
We have to catch hold of each instinct.
A lotus flower has bloomed in a pond.
The flower is visible above.
It is not visible below that flower.
Where has that flower come from?
Where are its roots?
Nothing is visible.
Only the flower is visible.

If we take shelter of this flower and search from where has it come out,
then we will gradually reach there by holding the stem of that flower.


Where its roots are hidden in the mud.
If anger is a flower that has come up,
then love is a flower that has come up.
Jealousy is a flower that has come up.
We will see this.
Grab hold of it and start following it,
keep following it,
keep descending and slowly slowly we will reach where its roots are,
where it has originated,
so man If you follow your instincts,
not suppress them,
not follow the instincts of the mind,
if you follow the instincts of the mind,

then slowly slowly slowly

it will reach the depths of the unconscious mind and along with it,
with observation,

the light will reach there which sees and you know that
if you reach the root of something,
then how easy it is.
If you feel that this fruit is undesirable,
this is not needed,
it spreads bad smell,
it has thorns,
then one blow and the flower is gone forever.

But from above,
if you keep cutting the flower,
cut it a thousand times every day,
the more times you cut,
the more times two stems will come out instead of one stem,
now two flowers will bloom,
earlier only one flower had bloomed,
now these two will be cut and four stems will come out
and this is what we are doing,
we are cutting the flowers from above,
the flowers keep growing.
As the flowers grow,
our restlessness to cut them increases.

Yesterday,

I got angry and cut them.
Today, I cut them twice.
The day before yesterday,
I cut them four times.
Every day the disease grows because

what we think of as cutting is grafting.
The gardener knows that the tree needs grafting.
Cut a branch.
From where the branch was cut,
two branches grow.

We are grafting our mind.

But if a person goes back and reaches the roots,
if he feels that the flower that has come is not desirable,

then a small push

and the roots are destroyed
and then flowers never come.

 The mind needs to be changed.
The grafting that keeps on going on from above
by a moral man never changes because of that.

The moral man keeps grafting from above
and hence keeps getting into trouble.
The religious man keeps grafting from above.

He does not uproot
He uproots the roots and throws them away
This work is done in one go and the work of penning

continues for a lifetime

This work is done in one go,

the root is uprooted and the matter ends

But If we keep on making all the fuss on the surface
Then we get very troubled too,
matters do not change either, man remains the same

You search for yourself the man you were a year ago
Man, even today, how many pens
you must not have done in a year,
I don't know what you have left
You must have done this, you must have done that
If you look back 30 years, you will find inside
that man remains the same
Throughout his life,

man remains poor almost the same

There may be some changes on the surface
but there is no difference inside

because we never reach inside

How will there be a difference,
if we never go to the roots
then will there be a difference

How will this formula of reaching the root

be It is the observation of the instincts,

following them !!!

You can call it meditation,
you can call it dhyan,
you can call it some other name,
but you have to enter within by holding on to one thing,

This entry can only be done with the help of something !!!

Every man has a chief character,
every man has some special quality,
There is anger,
hatred,
envy,
jealousy,
ego,
any one,

every man has a central instinct around which all instincts revolve,

so find your chief character,
your primary instinct,
and then follow it,
then start descending behind it,
then try to go with it as deep as you can,

keep trying till the day you reach
that place
beyond which there is no further movement,
where after reaching the last point,

the roots of the pause are reached,
then you will not have to ask anyone.
What should I do to separate this flower?
What should I do to separate this jealousy?
What should I do to separate this anger?
You will not have to ask this.
You will laugh and the matter will end.
That one slight push changes the whole thing.

But before reaching that slight push,

one has to follow the mind.

And this pursuit is very difficult !!!
in a sense because one is very scared to follow this.
Because we have created an image for ourselves.
In this pursuit, that image breaks.

The more we follow,
the more the image breaks.
A man says that he is a brahmachari.
Now if he will follow his sex,
then he will have to give up this imagination
that he is a brahmachari.
As he travels behind his lust,
behind sex,
he will come to know how much he is sexual
and how much he is free from sexual desire.

I am full of where is celibacy

[praise]

Rather, as you go inside,
you will come to know What I used to call celibacy,

that was all sexuality !

I used to close my eyes on seeing a woman and closing my eyes
was not celibacy,
closing my eyes was sex,
otherwise there was no need to close my eyes

I used to meet a Sadhvi and the sea breeze used to blow
now the sea breeze does not know that a woman is sitting
and a man is sitting the sea breeze blew my clothes
and made that Sadhvi touch it
she became very restless and nervous

now the innocent winds of the sea do not know that a
Sadhvi sitting and blowing her sheet
should not touch this
she was very nervous I asked her
are you nervous she said

men's clothes
were not Touching
should be done

I told them that men and women
can be clothes too
What kind of brahmacharya is this
who sees sex even in clothes

Because if clothes are man and woman then
sex has started to be seen in clothes
Clothes have also taken a sexual form
There is a difference of sex in clothes too
What kind of celibacy is this that sees
man and woman even in clothes See

[Praise]

I requested her, she will feel bad
I said but you don't know that in the name of celibacy
you have become even more lustful
this has become the limit of sexual desire
that there is more fear of the touch of clothes
this fear is an indication that inside
she does not want to touch a man
she has suppressed so much the feeling of a man's touch
may be natural,
she has suppressed so much that today even if a man's clothes
touch her,

it becomes a temptation,
it becomes an inspiration,
it becomes nervousness

if now such a man who has taken a vow of celibacy
or thinking that I have attained celibacy
if he goes back a little from his celibacy,
then just behind celibacy
he will find that sex has arisen,
then a great nervousness will come back
that there is no benefit in going back like this,
going back here gives rise to opposite thoughts,
he is a great sadhu,
great Fame Name Someone came and told me that
if someone takes money in front of him,
he turns his head and closes his eyes.

He had told me to compliment him that he
is a great renunciant,

he turns his eyes on seeing money.
I told him money is so innocent,
he turns his eyes away.

I told him what is there in money that one turns his eyes
away.
Instead of money,
it is a symptom of a great disease
and if one has to turn his eyes,

then there is interest in money otherwise there is no need
to turn his eyes and there is a lot of interest in money
on seeing money,

one person gets pampered and we call it interest

and another person turns his eyes away,
he also has the fear of getting pampered,
that is why he turns his eyes away.

What was the need to turn his eyes away?
Where is the power of money to force you to turn your eyes away?

He is so weak that when he sees money,
he has to turn his eyes away.
This renunciation is non-possession of money,
if this person follows it,
he will come to know that attachment to money is hidden in it,
this detachment is attachment to money,
this detachment is the hidden form of that attachment,
it is delusion and nothing else,
it is self-deception and nothing else,

if we follow our instincts,
then the self-image that we have created that I am this,
I am a renunciant,
I am this,
I am that,
we should come to know that it is false,

one should have the courage to see this lie,
only then can a person follow the instincts
and if one does not have the courage and the guts to see this lie,
then you should keep walking in the building above you,
you cannot go down and without going down,

no change is possible in your life,
even a bit of change is not possible,
then you keep decorating
the top and the volcano

below keeps burning He will keep on giving his message
everyday at odd hours that now I am coming,
now I am coming and your soul will remain trembling
lest it should come somewhere,

in this trembling the whole life is spent
in this trailing lest it should come from within
and we all know that it is present within

and the soul is trembling all the time,
the soul is trembling all the time,
we are scared all the time,
we are nervous,
this whole situation becomes an obstacle,
that is why there is an obstacle,
so I call the following of the tendencies as penance,

I call it tapascharya,
not to stand in the sun,
not to fast,
these are childish things,
anyone can do it,

only a little practice is needed
and if you keep doing it everyday
then the practice gradually gets completed,

a case was filed in a court, a man had requested for divorce :)

from his wife,
the magistrate asked him,
what is the reason?

He has decided to leave his wife
He said his wife has always had a bad habit
of throwing things at me
The magistrate asked how many days have passed since
they got married

He said 20 years
He said crazy

But where have you been for 20 years

The man said earlier his aim was not right
With practice it started getting better

With 20 years of practice...

his aim started getting better
No,
now I am scared,

earlier he used to often miss the target
The conversation went on with practice
The aim started getting right So
Continuously we keep practicing a lie

I am this, I am that, I am this and
Something keeps pushing inside

So with practice we can handle this empty hypocrisy
a little bit

If a man who has the urge to burst into tears

He too can sit smiling with practice
Often we do this, there are tears inside
We smile on the outside only so
that nobody can see the tears inside.

We keep smiling,
there is pain inside but on the outside we seem very happy,
very content.

So we stick some quality on the outside to oppose what is inside,
stick some virtue but keep in mind that often the qualities that
we stick on the outside are indicative of the exact opposite quality,
they have some opposite thing inside otherwise
there would be no need to stick it.

The person who sticks celibacy on the outside,
there is deep sexuality inside him,
no, so there was no need to stick celibacy.

The person who sticks non-possessiveness non-attachment on himself,
there is very deep attachment inside him, very deep attachment.

In this way we stick on the outside what is not inside us
and with these fake paper flowers stuck on the outside we cover it
with our sexuality.

Personality is formed

There is a fear of this personality breaking as

you enter inside, this image, this idol
you will have to break
to break your own idol,

the one who is ready is a seeker
and no other is !!!

only he can travel to the truth,
who is ready to know it with courage,
whatever may be the truth,

I want to know it, even if all my flowers fall
Let all my decorations fall,
let all my beauty be ruined,

But whatever mind I have,
no matter how strange it may be,
I am ready to see it.

Once a very wonderful incident had happened.

Indra had invited three sages to heaven.

The news of the penance
of those three sages had spread all over the earth.

Indra told the most beautiful Apsara of heaven,

Urvasi <3

that the minds of these three sages
have to be distracted by any means !

Urasi said that it is not difficult.
sages get distracted very easily :D

This can be done because those who run away from women
have a deep attraction for women in their hearts.

This can be done quickly.
If it was to distract a man lying in a brothel,
it would have been very difficult.

Because he is so familiar with women,
it is a little difficult to distract him.
But these are sages and muni,
poor fellows can soon get into trouble

The invitation was given to heaven ;)

Even sages could not refuse
because sages try their best to reach
heaven and what is the effort
on getting the invitation

They were very happy
It was a great honour
It was Indra's birthday and
only those three were invited
and their close associates were not called

This made them very happy They were very happy :D

They went dressed up in all ways
Sages and muni also have their own attire

[Praise]

They appeared
there as full-fledged sages

with full preparation Uvashi too got ready
that day and as much as she made up in those days,
all the experts in heaven,
all of them worked hard to be beautiful.
Uvashi looked so beautiful !!!
that even Indra himself got into trouble.
He had not imagined that Uvashi could be so beautiful.
Uvashi's dance started within an hour.

All those people kept watching.
They were never familiar with such a beautiful dance.
Their minds were so captivated.
Then when the night became dark,
Uvashi took off her ornaments and threw them away.
Ornaments make the body beautiful,
but a body without ornaments also has a different beauty.

Ornaments make the body beautiful,
but they also hide the body in many places.
After throwing the ornaments,
she started throwing her clothes too.

A sage Gabda came and shouted loudly, 
wait, wait, Uvashi,

this is a violation of decorum.
But the other two sages said friend,
if you are scared then close your eyes :D

The dance will not stop.
How can you stop the dance?
And if someone wants to remove his clothes,
how can you stop him?
What right and authority do you have?

You definitely have a right to close your eyes.
The dance will continue.
And they said,
let the dance continue.
The first sage closed his eyes,
but the poor guy did not know that
it was still a blessing to have open eyes.

The closed eyes put him in even more trouble.
Does closing eyes stop you from seeing anything?
Does closing eyes stop you from seeing anything?
Uvasi started seeing more beautiful dreams 
that become more beautiful than waking up.
The mind started seeing more beautiful and
the mind started pushing from within.

The sage was asked to open his eyes.
If the eyes were open,
at least this disturbance would not have happened.
The mind said, open your eyes.
The disciples behind him said, open your eyes.
I don't know, Uvasi might have thrown more clothes.

Open your eyes. And the conscious mind said,

how can the eyes be opened?
The hands and legs started trembling.
It became necessary to close the eyes more forcefully.
A lot of effort was required.

The sage was in great difficulty.
The dance went a little further.
Uvasi threw more clothes.
She became almost naked.
 
Only one thing remained on her body.
The second sage shouted,
now this is too much.

Close the real thing.

The first sage said, friend,
did you forget what we had said to the first sage?

The third sage said,
now you also close your eyes.

So the dance will continue Who has the right to stop the dance
You can close your eyes The second Rishi also had to close his eyes
 
The dance continued As soon as he closed his eyes,
the second Rishi realized that at least his eyes were open 
and Urvasi was wearing a cloth As soon as he closed his eyes,

the Rishi's mind removed that cloth too He was very frightened
His eyes were closed but she was standing naked The one whom 
e had closed his eyes to avoid had come in front of 

him This always happens The one whom we close our eyes
to avoid comes in front He will come because in closing
our eyes we have expressed so much interest that it has
become an invitation It is necessary to come His second
relationship is also a cloth He is frightened and Vasi
threw away the last cloth too He had thought that as soon
as he threw the last cloth the third Rishi would also get

frightened But Vasi was mistaken The third sage kept watching
and Vasi was now scared Now she had nothing left to throw
And it was impossible to be naked now
There was nothing left

Now she was standing naked and straight and clean now
There was nothing left to grow
And this sage kept on watching
And that sage kept on walking
Seeing Urvashi tired and scared,

that sage said

If you want to throw anything else, throw it
If you want to throw this skin
If you want to throw it, throw the skin
Take off this cloak also
Today I am standing here only to see

What is there in the end
I have come to see the whole
And Vasi fell on his feet

She said then I lost to you because
The one who is ready to see the whole
Will find in the end that there is nothing
The one who is ready to see the whole
Will know that there is nothing
The one who stops his interest before

seeing the whole Even inside he stops thinking that maybe something
is left and he should know more And that which is left becomes 

the grip of his life.
 
Now I have no way to defeat you. 
I have lost.
 
Urvashi fell at his feet.

That sage could not be defeated.
Because he was ready to see till the end and had courage.

The tendencies of the mind are also like the Urvashis.
The one who is ready to see them completely in their nakedness,
takes off all their clothes and the tendencies of the mind also fall
at his feet and ask for forgiveness that now we have lost.
But the one who hides the tendencies of the mind,

covers them in clothes,
closes his eyes,
he loses.

Only he wins over the tendencies,
who is ready and prepared to see the tendencies completely.
This is the only way to observe the awakening tendencies in their totality,
in their completeness.

To change and do something new,
to open the eyes of truth,
to recognize the roots of life,
we need courage for this,

and courage has only one meaning.
The image we have made of ourselves,
we think we are sitting there and trying to convince ourselves that we are.

We need the strength to see it fall,
to see its bricks slip away,
to see its building being destroyed.

And only if the old church falls, can a new church be built.
I repeat again the story with which I began the three-day discussion.
There was an old church that was about to fall.
When the wind blew, its walls were cracked and the plaster would fall.
It was impossible to stand inside it and pray.
It was impossible to go far away from it.
There was a danger that it might fall any time and take away our lives.
There is always a danger that old things might fall any time.

can take lives. Then the church committee met and decided.
It passed four proposals.
One that the old church should be demolished.
Two that a new church should be built.
Three that the new church should be built using the bricks,
stones and materials of the old church. 

And four that the old church should not be demolished until the new church is built.
The first two proposals are fine,
but the last two are very crazy.
A new church can never be built using the bricks of the old church.

It will be the old one, only its modified form.

Then a new one should not be built until the old one falls.

If it is there, the new will not be built because the land of the old is
also the land for building the new.

Only if the old one falls can the new one be built.
This is our mind.
This is the temple of the mind.
This is the old temple in which we are sitting
and in which we are thinking that it can fall anytime.

The fear of falling creates a lot of worry and distress
and every person remains worried throughout his life

that when will this temple fall under which I am sitting,
I cannot sleep peacefully at night nor can I remain awake during the day.
I am afraid of its falling 24 hours a day.

Till we do not overcome this fear and agree to bring it down ourselves,
we cannot build a new temple.
This false temple which we have built all around us is not right.
If this was right, we would have become peaceful.

If this was right, our heart would have blossomed like a flower.
If this was right, our life would have been filled with fragrance.
If this was right, we would have known him who is Amrit.

If this was right, we would have recognized him who is the life of lives,
who is God. But this is not right and we want to protect it.

So we will never know what is right.
You will be able to and you will not be able to build it either
You must have the courage to break it

The man who is inclined to destroy is also capable of creating
Destruction is the first principle of creation
It is our image,
it is an idol,

only the courage to destroy it

can take us to the knowledge of the soul and this knowledge
is possible and bears fruit only through the observance,

awareness of each individual.
This is all I had to say in the morning.




- Good morning meditation - osho instructions transcript from hindi -





Now we will sit for morning meditation at a little distance.

We can sit far away also,
we can sit under the trees in front.
You can sit anywhere.
Sit quietly and comfortably.
Sit as conveniently as you can.
If you want to lean against the tree, sit as you please.

Sit quietly as you wish.
Leave your body calm and sit.
Then come and close it slowly.
Slowly let go of the eyelids and the eyelids will automatically close
You have closed your eyes and are sitting quietly
Now let go of all resistance to life
Leave the doors of the mind open
The winds will come and Pass through the doors of the mind

Some bird will call, the sound will echo

And it will go out
You will remain only a witness
Sitting quietly, keep watching, keep listening

Keep listening
Just keep listening

[Music]

Be a witness, a witness
And nothing else
Slowly the mind will become absolutely calm
Listen to the winds

[Music]

Listen to the voice of the Lord
Listen to this bird speaking
Start listening, keep listening
And the mind will become absolutely calm
Keep listening for 10 minutes


Keep listening

Everything will vanish
The winds will remain, the birds will remain, you will vanish
The world will remain, you will not remain
Life will remain, you will not remain
Leave everything quietly Keep listening
Listen for 10 minutes
Keep listening together
The mind will gradually become calm
The mind will be filled with silence
The mind will become completely calm
The mind will become completely calm

Keep listening
Keep listening

The wind kept blowing

The sound of the birds remained

Where are you

Keep listening

Slowly everything

became calm

The mind has become calm

You have become completely


disconnected



The mind has become calm

The mind has become completely calm
It has become just a witness

You have remained just a witness

Keep listening

Keep listening

And it became deeply calm


The sound of the birds

aa remained you disappeared

come and


slowly slowly take two or four deep breaths

let it rest

slowly slowly take two or four deep breaths

then slowly open your eyes


slowly open your eyes


GM !